- Now, let's start Tomcat again
and go to the browser URL
and try to access some of these pre-installed apps.
When you click on the manager app,
it prompts us with basic auth dialogue
asking for our credentials.
If we click cancel and go back,
we're presented with a 401 Unauthorized screen,
but notice what the message on the screen tells us as well.
It tells us how to set the privileges to these resources
in the conf Tomcat users xml.
The screen alerts us that Tomcat 7 onward
that you have to have a manager gui,
a manager-script, manager-jmx, and manager-status
that access these different pieces of functionality.
And these have to exist on a user with these roles.
So, let's configure that.
We'll switch over to our terminal window
and we'll navigate to the conf directory
and inside the conf directory you should see
a Tomcat dash users xml.
I've been using vi that it follows
and if you haven't learned vi now, this is a good time.
Inside this directory, type vi
tomcat-users.xml
We're going to scroll to the bottom
hit i to insert, hit enter,
and we're going to type
role, rolename equals,
our first one is going to be the manager-gui.
Do it again.
Role, rolename equals,
the next one will be the manager-status.
I'll type role,
rolename equals,
admin-gui,
and then we're going to define our user.
User, username equals,
and I'm going to provide my name,
Michael,
with a password
of s3cret.
Hit enter,
and type roles equals
and I'm going to basically
say gui,
manager-status,
and admin-gui.
And we'll hit the escape key,
colon w to write it,
colon q to quit from vi.
From here, we need to stop and start Tomcat again
so we'll back out one directory.
Type bin, shutdown,
and then we'll do bin, startup,
now we'll navigate back to our Chrome browser,
we'll click back, refresh this, click on manager app,
we'll enter the username Michael, and the password
s3cret,
and voila, here we go.
Now we have access to the manager app.
If we go back,
click on the host manager,
we have access to the host manager as well.
Going back to the host manager one more time
we can see from here that we have a set of links
across the top,
we're looking at installed help documents,
for server status,
list of virtual hosts, and so forth.
Sometimes these are helpful to understand the basic
server information and memory questions you might have.
One last thing I'd like to cover before we exit,
and this concerns the port address that Tomcat runs on.
By default, it runs on 8080,
but you might want to change that
due to differing IT security roles.
To do this, we go back to the command line again,
we'll type vi,
conf, server xml,
and hit enter.
I'm going to type / 8080 to do a search
and this will bring us down to the connector port here
that has our Tomcat instance listening.
We'll type i again to insert,
going to change that to 8090,
hit escape, w to write,
q to quit,
and then we're going to stop our Tomcat instance,
we'll start it back up again,
switch back to our browser,
and, if we refresh this,
we'll notice we can't access the site anymore.
However, let's change it now to 8090,
hit enter, now our Tomcat instance is running
on 8090.